### Conceptual Exercise

Answer the following questions below:

- What is PostgreSQL?
An open source object relational database system.


- What is the difference between SQL and PostgreSQL?
Postgres is an open source, while SQL is owned by Microsoft.
SQL is used to manage, query, and retrieve data in a relational database. It is a language used by relational database management systems. Allows users to manipulate data in relational database tables.

Postgresql is an object relational database management system. Supports both relational and non-relational databases. Works with foreign keys, subqueries, and triggers. Allows to define data types and generate custom functions.


- In `psql`, how do you connect to a database?
in your terminal use createdb 'database_name' to create the database
In psql do \c 'database_name' to connect to that database



- What is the difference between `HAVING` and `WHERE`?
'WHERE' is used to filter data based on specific conditions. 
ex.  WHERE continent = 'Africa'. By doing this you are narrowing you search specifically into where continent is Africa.

'HAVING' is group based data under a set condition.
ex: SELECT age, count(*) as total_people FROM people GROUP BY age HAVING COUNT(*) >=10;
This is showing that HAVING is used at the end after multiple other categories have gone by.

WHERE can take charge and be used to find data, while HAVING can only be used after a number of other categories have been used such as GROUP BY.



- What is the difference between an `INNER` and `OUTER` join?
The inner join keeps information from both tables tht relate to each other and creates the resulting table. The Outer Join combines information from both tables independently, everything is included.



- What is the difference between a `LEFT OUTER` and `RIGHT OUTER` join?
LEFT OUTER JOIN returns unmatched rows from the left table and matched rows in both tables. RIGHT OUTER JOIN returns unmatched rows from the right table and matched rows in both tables.


- What is an ORM? What do they do?
Object Relational Mapper. Is a piece of software designed to translate between the data representations used by databases and those used in object-oriented programming.



- What are some differences between making HTTP requests using AJAX 
  and from the server side using a library like `requests`?

AJAX is similar to a normal browser. When you make a request, the current document is unaffected and it loads to request and applies it.
With server side libraries it clears the current browser and loads the server response into the browser.


- What is CSRF? What is the purpose of the CSRF token?
A Cross-Site Request Forgery token is a security measure that is used to prevent unauthorized and malixious requests. The token is generated by a server side application and uses it to make requests when sharing potentially sensitive information such as submitting a form. The token is unique and is often on a time limit.



- What is the purpose of `form.hidden_tag()`?
it is a hidden field that uses the csrf token to protect against attacks.
